#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ctex-article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language chinese-simplified
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8-plain
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 1cm
\headheight 1cm
\headsep 1cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Is there such a thing as too much democracy?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The digital age has hardly changed the outlook of voting booths, but the
 route from the ballots to voting booths has mutated enormously.
 Voters used to go through information flows screen-filtered by fact-checking
 systems, and with respected newspaper editors and prestigious news anchors
 as gatekeepers to keep out the most deliberate untruths and inflaming voices.
 Today they are besiegeded by waves of fake news, radicalized and radicalizing
 viewpoints and discourses unleashed by social media and the convenience
 of cell phones.
 When a political outsider and demagogue strode into the oval office and
 resisted the departure from it by smearing the election system and inciting
 the Capitol Hill insurrection, the world smelled the deja vu of elected
 autocrats like Hitler in 1933 and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 UK fared no better when Brexit mandated by a referendum took three Prime
 Ministers to deliver, accompanied by a political turmoil of three and a
 half years.
 The surging populism, identity politics, partisan politics, and political
 tsunamis accentuate one question.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Is there aleady an overdose of democracy that grabs the rein of the country
 into the hands of inciting demagogues and misinformed, impulsive and irresponsi
ble online mobs? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the answer is NO, democracy has not been too much yet in the status quo,
 the second question is open.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Is there a theoretical possibility that there can be too much democracy?
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Definition of Democracy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What democracy is needs to be defined before the evaluation of its excess.
 Definitions of democracy have been evolving throughout human history.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Definition 1 Rule by the majority
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The original form of democracy is rule by the majority.
 Aristotle identified three major forms of constitutions: Kingship, Aristocracy,
 and Polity (the deviant of which is Democracy) if the government may consist
 of one person, a few, or a multitude respectively (Aristotle, Politics,
 translated by Lord, 2013).
 Direct democracy of rule by the majority was practiced in Athens in the
 form of citizen's assembly sized 6000, with at last 40 annual conventions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Definition 2 Representative legislature and administration through competitive
 election
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To accomodate ever increasing population and to overcome the inherent defects
 of direct governing by the people, the egalitarianism regime where people
 make decisions together evolved into representatives governing the country
 through competitive election into legislature and administration (Schumpeter,
 2003).
 The rank and file participate indirectly in making laws and public policies
 by casting their votes.
 Grass root democracy is replaced by representative democracy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Definition 3 Liberal democracy based on institutionalized constitution
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the 1990s, there has been a new academic definition of democracy,
 the Compound Democracy, also known as Liberal Democracy or Constitutional
 Democracy.
 (Bao, Logic of Democracy: 38) The equation is representative democracy
 coupled with the rule of law, which safeguards the legitimacy of political
 procedures, freedom of expression and participation of common citizens,
 and confines the power of administers within constitutional and legal principle
s.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The defining line between the second and the third defintion of democracy
 lies in the absence or presence of the rule of law.
 If election procedures are abused, political opponents are elimianted (imprison
ed, exiled, or killed), the regime may claim itself to be democratic, but
 it is autocracy in essence.
 Howevr, if public resentments are fermented and maneouvered to defy consitution
 and the rule of law and hijack governmental polices, it is still elective
 and representaitve democracy in name, but not liberal democracy.
 Therefore, to address the topical question in alignment with the definition
 of liberal democracy, it is possible that even if the symptoms seem to
 be an overdose of democracy pro forma, the underlying ill of the society
 is deficiency of it in essence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This research is a comparative analysis set within the paradigms of representaiv
e democracy and liberal democracy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Yardstick to measure how much is too much
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The core issue of this research is the yardstick to measure how much democracy
 is too much.
 If liberal democracy is taken as ends by its own justifications, there
 is an overdose of it if it is crowding out other inherent values of public
 life.
 If liberal democracy is taken as means to social prosperity, it is in excess
 if it overwhelms other means to social prosperity and makes the target
 even more inaccessible than in the absence or mitigated presence of it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Democracy as ends
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Democracy is taken as ends when its intrinsic value of citizen participation
 and decision as social good per se is recognized.
 It is considered equally important with freedom, equality, economic prosperity,
 social cohesion and public order.
 The bar for democratic excessiveness can be set quite high: as long as
 it allows other kinds of social goods to flourish as well, rather than
 crowd out others out of our collective life, there is no overdose of democracy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Global landscape of democracy shows that vast regions are still short of
 democracy.
 Of the 12 countries in the Middle East, 10 have never experienced democracy.
 Asia is home to the largest number of countries (40 per cent of countries
 in the region) that have never experienced democracy at any time in their
 history.
 Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, Chile and multiple other Latin American countries
 have experienced different degrees of democratic backslide (The Global
 State of Democracy 2019 Addressing the Ills, Reviving the Promise).
 Cambodia, Thailand, Parkistan, Turkey and Russia have retreated from democracy
 into authoritarian regimes.
 Therefore, in vast regions of the world, democracy is a scarcity rather
 than excess.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, in the most democratic regions of the world, North America and
 Europe, the rise of populist, extremist and anti-establishment candidates
 or parties is eroding people's trust in the government and the entire constitut
ional institution.
 Some regard populism as malaise or an overdose of democracy, and caution
 against the pervasiveness of it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
此处和定义三的部分有重复。Here comes a crucial question of the differentiation of populism
 from liberal democracy.
 Populism is still democracy if democracy is taken as representative legislature
 and administration through competitive election (Defintion 2), but it goes
 out of line with Definition 3 of democracy (Liberal democracy based on
 institutionalized constitution).
 Populist actors often show disrespect for the accountability institutions
 that check government, protect political pluralism and constitute liberal
 democracy.
 Public opinions malnourished by misinformation and lack of deliberation,
 or intentionally manipulated by demagogues hijack election and government
 polices against the guardrails of constitution and rule of law.
 Populism may look like democracy pro forma, but actually gnaws at the essence
 of liberal democracy.
 The inherent predisposition for unconstrained power turns populism into
 a threat for democracy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore, within the paradigm of liberal democracy, the raging populism
 in North America or Europe is manifestation of democratic fragility and
 erosion, rather than democratic overdose.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Democracy as means
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
John Stuart Mill thinks that democracy is best suited to promote the common
 good in two ways.
 It first plays an important epistemic role in identifying the common good.
 Universal suffrage and political participation provide the best assurance
 that the interests of the governed will be properly appreciated by political
 decision-makers.
 Secondly, the political participation also improves the moral capacity
 of citizens.
 The governed cultivate their deliberate capacity to exchange reasons with
 others and to take principled stands in political process.
 (Considerations on Representative Government: 404).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Democracy is commonly acknowldged today as means to achieving common good
 as economic growth, economic equality, gender equality, freedom, education,
 lower crime rate etc..
 However, unproportionately huge importance attached to it is likely to
 overwhelm other effective means to achieving these targets and thus make
 the targets even harder to access.
 The following part will analyze the inefficiency of democracy as means
 to prosperity.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Democracy is not sufficient in achieving prosperity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Democracies are by and large more affluent, more equal and less corrupt
 than non-democracies and hybrid regimes.
 Europe and Latin America have the highest representation of women in parliament
 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

(The Global State of Democracy 2019, p6), while the democractically starved
 Middle East literally imposes gender apartheid.
 Civil Liberties are one of the best-performing aspects of democracy including
 in Africa.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

in and of itself, democracy is not sufficient to guarantee low levels of
 corruption: indeed, 25 per cent of democracies globally suffer from high
 levels of corruption.
 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

(The Global State of Democracy 2019, p3) Latin America has highest socio-economi
c inequality and highest crime rate.
 USA has seen intense working class' sense of victimhood and economic anger
 since globalization and free capital flow have left them behind.
 The old beacon of hope has been more stratified and polarized in the past
 decade than ever before.
 Democracy does not translate into prosperity.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Democracy is not the only means to prosperity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Authoritarian regimes like Park Chung-hee's reign worked the Miracle of
 Han River of Korea in the 1960s and 70s.
 China has leaped to the second economic powerhouse through 40 years of
 spectaculor ecnomic growth.
 Lee Kuan Yew, celebrated as the architect of modern Singapore, transformed
 Singapore from a modest port into a global financial and transportation
 center with enormous improvement of people's living standards and education.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One the other hand, when countries with weak administration or antagonized
 racial or religious groups are thrusted into democracy, they suffer schism,
 social turmoils and even coup.
 For example, Haiti copied American constitution and the entire political
 system, but ended up being one of the poorest and most corrupted countries
 in the world with political turmoils one after another.
 In the wake of the demise of the Egyptian authoritian govenment, elections
 was held and a new constitution was passed in 2012, just to see massive
 political demonstrations against the new administration, and military quickly
 assumed control of the country.
 Democracy was desired and tried, but collapsed for absence of competent
 government.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Edmund Burke claims that good government is more important, and indeed more
 valued by the people, than self government (Richard S.
 Katz 2021:70).
 Effective state is a very important prerequisite to econonic growth and
 social prosperity.
 Its importance could outweigh that of election and representative democracy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Besides state building, there are other factors essential for social prosperity.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Institutions were more than just formal rules; they encompassed the shared
 understanding of appropriate behavior that overlay them
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 (Levitsky & Ziblatt, 2019: 213).
 Political party's forebearance not to leverage its full power to cripple
 its political adversaries, mutual respect and tolerance of political candidates
 are tacit procedural principles that make the democratic institutions function.
 The media's rigorous gatekeeping system guarantees the public sufficient
 access to information and fair analysis.
 The public's willingness to deliberation and rational exchange of opinions
 keeps them from the trap of the echo chamber and online violence.
 All these are unwritten norms that orchestrate to make the social soil
 fertile for the growth of democracy and prosperity.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore, to new democracies with strong social stratification and racial
 or religious conflicts, the importance of democracy submits to that of
 a strong government to contain the situation to the tract of development
 and prosperity.
 To established democracies, the culture of compliance with the unwritten
 norms is crucial to guardrail the resilience and robustness of democracy,
 and the social stability and prosperity.
 The equation to prosperity is state building, consitutional democracy and
 unwritten social norms of forberarance and tolerance.
 If the symmetry of the equation is broken, democracy paves the way to chaos
 and abyss.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
ANSWER THE QUESTION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Populism is not democracy and pervasiveness of populism is not overdose
 of democracy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, even if liberal democracy, if it is the only game in town, without
 the guardrails of the unwritten norms of a civilized society, e.g.
 politician's foreberance and tolerance, media's integrity and rigorous
 fact-checking system, and the publics willingness to step out of their
 own conflicts of interests, and engage in fair and responsible deliberation,
 there can be too much of it, even if it is liberal democracy based on instituti
onalized constitutions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Democracy neither flourishes in weak states, nor leads to common prosperity.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Democratic backsliding today begins at the ballot box.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Juan Linz: Democracy is the only game in the town (by both elite and public)，民主崩
溃
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Democracy dies in darknes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
When we go off to war.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
When we exercise our rights.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
When we soar to our greatest heights.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
When we mourn and pray.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
When our neighbors are at risk.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
When our nation is threatened.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
There’s someone to gather the facts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
To bring you the story.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
No matter the cost.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
Because knowing empowers us.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
Knowing helps us decide.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
Knowing keeps us free.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Address
The Washington Post 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

Lord, Carnes, English translation of Aristotle's Politics.
 Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2013, revised edition.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"

\end_inset

Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy By Joseph A.
 Schumpeter Edition1st Edition First Published1976 eBook Published20 May
 2003 Pub.
 LocationLondon ImprintRoutledge DOIhttps://doi.org/10.4324/9780203202050
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

Fukuyam, Politcal ...
 and Political Decay
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2-1"

\end_inset

@book{book:2172059, title = {How Democracies Die: What History Reveals About
 Our Future}, author = {Steven Levitsky, Daniel Ziblatt}, publisher = {Crown},
 isbn = {1524762938,978-1524762933}, year = {2018}, series = {}, edition
 = {1st}, volume = {}, url = {http://gen.lib.rus.ec/book/index.php?md5=50208a468eea1
96a001d4ada806643b7} }ok
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-4"

\end_inset

Key findings The Global State of Democracy 2019 Addressing the Ills, Reviving
 the Promise
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1-1"

\end_inset

@book{book:4052789, title = {Tyranny of the Minority - Why American Democracy
 Reached the Breaking Point}, author = {Steven Levitsky, Daniel Ziblatt},
 publisher = {Penguin Random House LLC}, isbn = {9780593443088,9780593443071,978
0593728161}, year = {2023}, series = {}, edition = {1}, volume = {}, url
 = {http://gen.lib.rus.ec/book/index.php?md5=C9B7CA954ED5FB5BBB6C58A548E0A41E}
 }
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-6"

\end_inset

Robert Talisse: Overdoing Democracy: Why We Must Put Democracy in Its Place
 Oxford University Press, 2019
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-7"

\end_inset

Richard S.
 Katz 2021 Scandinavian Political StudiesVolume 45, Issue 1 p.
 68-85
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Schumpeter, J.
 A.
 1962.
 Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy.
 New York: Harper and Row.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
