# Do we have any good reasons to trust our moral intuition?

Let us first observe that many of us already routinely trust our moral 
intuition, for the common process of developing or considering the 
validity of a ethical principle often consists of testing moral dilemmas 
based on intuition, and, in doing so, refining the principle or 
rejecting it when it yields a result or reasoning that we consider 
"absurd". Take two examples: I reject Kant's absolute prohibition 
against lying, as I intuitively find it absurd to forbid myself from 
lying to a murderer who threatens to find and kill my friend; and I 
initially reject dogmatically applying classical utilitarianism due to 
intuitive counter-examples, such as the intuitive immorality of pushing 
a heavy person off a bridge to stop a runaway trolley (as describe in 
\runcite[21]{justice}).

Let us then make a distinction between two notions of trusting moral 
intuition. One is the notion that moral intuition is self-evident and 
that any "sane" human would arrive at a set of common moral judgments 
or principles. Another is the notion that moral intuition is 
idiosyncratic to each individual. I argue for the latter in this essay, 
and in fact, rather than thinking of moral intuition as a means to 
arriving at a pre-conceived notion of what morality is, I argue that an 
individual's moral intuition itself is the only source of truth for 
moral judgment.

As briefly mentioned in the introduction, so-called "moral principles" 
are only an generalized abstraction towards our moral judgment on 
individual events in their particular contexts, i.e., "it is wrong to 
kill *this particular person in this particular condition*" is a moral 
judgment while "it is wrong to kill people" is not. And it is in the 
moral judgment of these individual events that intuition ultimately 
prevails. [^1]

[^1]: I think this leads to a generalized argument on how the evaluation 
    of every argument (or, every individual-case judgment, regardless 
    of whether it is related to morality) boils down to intuition. Let's 
    see how I could explain this...

It cannot be denied, however, that intuitive judgment is occasionally
unreliable. But these are typically attributed to a lack of information.
For those who raise the example of a person whose moral principles are
considered "utterly deranged", it must also be noted how the "expected",
or so called "normative" moral judgments as expected by the people
making this judgment, are no more fundamentally correct than any other
set of moral judgments, including those that are considered "socially
unacceptable". A universal moral judgment for one moral act among any
set of different subjects cannot exist in a world that has consistently
overhauled its moral framework throughout the centuries, and there is no
evidence that we have reached any sort of stable consensus on what moral
acts are.

But if moral principles are up to each individual to decide, would there
be no consistency in society and no moral foundation for criminal
justice systems? My response would be that "[the court's] obligation is
to define the liberty of all, not to mandate our own moral code."
\Runcite{casey}.

* Compare so-called "better" sources of intuition, perhaps even
  empiricism. Consider the individuality.
* Perhaps an extended example on the trolley problem.

---

Actually, a second iteration of thoughts that starts from the very
beginning.

When we consider whether we should trust something, we must first
declare *for what purpose* is this trust being contemplated. I trust
my text editor to edit text, but I don't trust it to browse the web.
This might seem like an obvious example at first, but as we shall see,
there are quite a few purposes that people might apply moral intuition
to, and the usage thereof are not equally valid across these purposes.

There are usually four ways people use moral intuition. Firstly, it's to
make a moral judgment themselves: Is this right or wrong? Secondly, it's
to decide on what to do (which might, depending on interpretation, be
combined into the first). Thirdly, it's to test a general moral
principle: Does this pattern sound right? Does applying this principle
yield obviously ridiculous results? Fourthly, it's to provide an
interface to ethics.



<!-- vim: tw=72 colorcolumn=73 spell spelllang=en_us
-->
